"You cannot walk away from love."
That was the advertisement
in a Baltimore newspaper.
And that is how he found her.
She was a young woman
in need of a husband.
And he was a man
who wanted a wife.
[chattering in Spanish]
[woman] It's too late
to talk sense to him now.
[man] You can't marry her, Luis.
You've never met her.
[Luis] I meet her today.
The boat from America comes
at 6:00, we marry at 9:00,
by 10:00, I'm back at work.
Ridiculous. This is ridiculous.
A man needs a wife, isn't that
what you've been telling me?
- Well, I sent for one.
- [woman] From America.
[man] What does she look like?
[woman] Comes a day in every man's life
when a band is playing,
and he's the only one who can hear it.
Today is your day.
- I love you, woman.
- [chuckles]
She is not beautiful.
She is not meant to be beautiful.
She's meant to be kind, true
and young enough to bear children.
[woman chuckles]
[woman] Go, go on.
The sun will be up any minute.
That boat will be coming in.
But what about love, Luis?
Doesn't love come into
this equation at all?
Love is not for me, Alan.
Love is for those people
who believe in it.
- [woman laughs]
- Let's go.
[woman laughs]
Why are you laughing at me?
You've been laughing at me all morning.
[woman] Ah, never mind.
You go! Go on! [laughs]
♪♪ [workers sing in Spanish]
[woman] No, this is not a love story.
But it is a story about love,
and the power it has over our life--
The power to heal or destroy.
And this is where the story begins.
[woman] Mr. Vargas?
- Luis Vargas?
- Yes.
You don't recognize me, do you?
Miss Russell?
Yes.
Julia Russell?
But this--this picture--
I've deceived you. I'm sorry.
I shouldn't have. I...
I was unsure. You see, I...
I didn't want a man to be interested in
me just because I owned a pretty face.
And... so I sent another woman's
photograph and not my own.
I see.
I do hope you forgive me.
I-I meant to write many times. I tried.
But my courage failed me. So I...
Mmm. And, um...
Well...
Now I stand before you as I am,
and you know the worst.
No, no.
Not the worst at all.
Only, not what I was expecting.
If my deception has altered
your intentions, and
if you're not satisfied in any way--
No, no, no, it isn't that.
I am determined to make my way back
to my home in Delaware.
- If you say so, I will.
- M-Miss Russell.
Miss Russell, um...
You have been honest with me.
I will be honest with you, too.
And...
I will admit to a deception of my own.
You are exactly the
image of your photograph.
Oh, yes, yes, I am. I am.
But I wrote to you that I-I am a clerk
in a coffee export house, and I am not.
-On.
-I...
I own the house.
The business is my own.
Mmm.
You...
You did not want a woman
to be interested in you
just because you owned
a pretty bank account.
- Ah. Yes.
- Yes.
Well... then we have
something in common.
We are both not to be trusted.
Of course, if my-- if my deception
has altered your intentions,
If you are not interested
in marrying a wealthy man...
No, I think I could manage.
[chuckles]
If you could manage
a somewhat prettier wife.
I'll make the effort.
[both laugh nervously]
Hmm.
[clears throat]
Uh...
Miss Russell.
Mr. Vargas.
Now we've all the time in the world
to get to know each other.
- Well, no, not all the time.
- No?
Uh, no, we are going
to be married at 9:00.
Oh.
- Well, then, we'd better hurry.
- Yes.
[church bell tolls]
♪♪ [choir sings]
[Speaks Spanish]
"Take this ring...
"As a sign of my love...
[Speaks Spanish]
"And fidelity...
"to you."
[Speaks Spanish]
♪♪ [slow waltz plays]
Music!
[chuckles]
Ladies and gentlemen, a toast!
To our groom and his beautiful,
enchanting bride!
[chuckles]
Will you dance with me?
Dance? Uh.
I--
I-I don't dance.
I say you do.
[Alan] May their life together be like
this dance, harmonious, smooth.
Dance for life never ending and--
- Alan, enough is enough.
- I'm almost through.
You're through now. Sit down.
[guests cheer]
- Good luck to you.
- Thank you.
♪♪ [men singing]
Would you like to see the house?
Oh, no. I can see it tomorrow.
Yes.
[sighs] You must give me a few moments.
I'm shy of these things.
I will give you as many moments,
days, nights as you need.
And when you want me to come to you,
I will.
Not before.
You would do that for me?
If you say so, yes.
Well, then...
I will say good night.
- Good night.
Uh...
The room is there, to the right.
Hmm, yes. I think I'll find it.
[door closes]
[groans]
Ah.
Ahh. Awake at last.
The day is half-gone.
I'm sorry. I'm not dressed.
I could wait outside,
but then the coffee would be cold.
No, it's all right.
If someone brought me my coffee
every morning before I dressed,
I would be very happy.
It would change the day.
But... you only drink tea
in the morning.
I do? No.
Yeah. When I wrote I worked
in a coffee company, you wrote back--
That was my sister.
She believed coffee
to be a sinful pleasure
so I pretended to agree with her.
And as she read all my letters to you, I
could not always tell the truth in them.
Well... all the more reason
to forget them.
That's all behind you now.
What do you think?
About what?
Do you believe as my sister does
that, um, pleasure
could ever be sinful?
[moans]
♪♪ [sings softly]
[inaudible]
[both laugh]
[Julia] Why did you choose
an American wife?
[Luis] well, uh...
Here, we are the past.
And there, you are the future.
Why did you, uh, choose to leave it?
To escape the future.
To become someone else, I think.
I am someone else with you.
Someone more like
myself.
Mmm.
[Julia] And there, in his arms
she became someone else.
Someone more like herself.
Uh.
[Julia moaning]
[Luis] I'm telling you, man,
I've never been happier.
There's no such thing
as happily married, Luis.
It's an oxymoron, like "happily dead."
I thought you'd be slowly finding your
way back to the whores by now.
Seeing some little Creole tart.
[Luis] Not anymore.
Anyway, you've had her
for yourself long enough, my friend.
When do we get to see her again?
Well, we're going to the
theater next week--
There's an American touring
company she wants to see.
Why don't you join us?
[Margareta] Soon comes the morning
when the knell is rung
to take my living breath.
[Faust] Come, come,
the night is almost done.
Satan is near!
The shrieking, grim,
and hideous brim of hell to uncover.
[Mephisto] Come,
or you will share her wretched end.
[Faust] Hellhound!
Abominable monster!
Would that I had never been born!
[inaudible]
Wonderful. Wonderful.
Disgusting.
Cheap melodrama.
Was it we who forced our way to you?
Who was it sent her to her ruin?
I...
or you?
[Margareta] What evil thing
has risen from the ground?
Father, let angels now have charge of me
encamped around heavenly company.
She is condemned to die.
Here! She is redeemed on high!
Hither, to me!
[audience cheering]
Julia, my dear, you look flushed.
Are you all right?
Mm, yes. Yes, it's the theater.
I love it,
even the cheap melodrama.
- Will you excuse me?
- Sure.
[Alan] Does she suffer from fevers?
She suffers from a
little too much rouge.
Nonsense. A lady
does not wear rouge.
No, a lady doesn't.
And a lady does not wander
through the theater alone, either.
Excuse me.
Perhaps you will find
the second act more appealing.
♪♪ [musicians tune instruments]
♪♪ [woman sings opera]
Excuse me, sir! Uh, the public
is not allowed backstage.
Don't put your hands on me, sir.
That is my wife, damn it!
Luis, you've come to my rescue.
- Julia.
- [Julia] Just like a play.
What are you doing here?
Isn't it exciting? Look at all
the mysterious contraptions.
Who was that man?
What man? I was lost, that's all.
You made my heart stop.
Mm. feel my heart.
Feel how fast it's beating?
- Mmm.
- Christ.
You'll be the death of me.
Oh...
I hope so.
[laughs]
[stage manager] Places, please.
Ladies and gentlemen,
places for act 2.
Take me home now.
[Speaks Spanish]
[woman] "My own dearest sister.
"I cannot understand
why you treat me thus.
"It is many weeks now
since you left me.
"And in all that time, not a word from
you to tell me of your safe arrival...
"whether you have met Mr. Vargas,
"whether the marriage
has taken place or not.
"What am I to think?
"I have already contacted
the embassy in Havana
"and the authorities there in Santiago."
I know how you feel
about her, but, uh...
you have to write.
You have to write,
before she has the police on us.
Yes, you're right.
I've been unkind to her.
Although she has
never been kind to me.
Just do it.
Do it, then it's done.
[Julia] No, no, no!
No! No!
Julia, Julia. It's all right.
It's all right. It's me, it's me, Luis.
You were dreaming.
Are you all right?
Oh.
That's it. That's it.
You were just dreaming.
Just dreaming.
- Oh.
- It's all right.
Ah, it was just a dream.
A bad one, that's all. That's all.
[laughs]
It was just a dream.
Are you all right?
You need something?
You.
I'm sorry.
You are here with me. Secure.
You're all right.
- Will you stay?
- Of course.
Of course.
It's all right.
[Speaks Spanish]
Luis, don't go.
How is the queen
of the house this morning?
Look. See? I've done it.
This is for the best. Thank you.
I'll have Sara post it this morning.
No need. I can do it myself.
I've yet to address it.
I'll do it. I've the
address at the office.
Then it's even sooner
on its way. Come on.
Yes.
What will you do today?
[Julia] I'm going to an English
dressmaker at the Plaza Vieja.
Oh. Uh...
You'll need some money.
Sign here, senora.
Did you wish to book this from both
your personal and business account?
Yes, thank you.
I want my wife to have
free use of all of my accounts.
There you are.
How should I sign?
Do I use my Christian name?
No, no, your married name.
And then you have to remember
to repeat the signature exactly
each time you draw a check.
I will try.
Ugh.
Ho!
Oh, man!
[both grunting]
[Alan] So, Luis, is it love after all,
or is it just lust?
- Uh, is there a difference?
- Oh, yes.
To love someone is to give
and then want to give more.
And lust?
What is lust, Alan?
Lust is to take and then take more.
To devour, to consume.
No logic, no reason.
So? Give...take?
Which is it?
Both.
[sighs]
I want to give her everything.
And I want to take
everything from her.
Oh, Luis. You are a lost man.
No, no.
I think she is the one
who seems to be lost.
How, why, I don't know.
But that will change.
I can change that.
[chattering]
- Mr. Vargas, is it?
- Yes?
Walter Downs.
I didn't mean to startle you.
That's all right.
They told me I'd find you upstairs.
Wh-what can I do for you?
Small matter.
Hardly worth your trouble.
I've been engaged by Miss Russell.
- You mean, Julia?
- No, Emily. Julia's sister.
In Delaware.
I'm a private investigator.
I just recently
arrived from Wilmington.
I understand. I mean I-- I know
Miss Russell has been, ah, distressed.
But, ah, we've written
to her several weeks ago.
I'm sure when she receives the letter,
she will be much relieved.
Then Miss Julia is all right?
Yes, more than all right.
And more than Miss Julia.
She's Senora Vargas,
she's my wife.
So you are married?
- Yeah.
-Ah.
[chuckles]
That's very good news.
- Happily married.
- Ah, yes, I can see it.
What a mystery
a happy marriage is, hmm?
The bloom in the cheek,
the spark in the eye.
- It shows, I guess.
- Oh yes, indeed.
And Miss Russell will be
pleased to hear of it.
I would appreciate
if you can tell her that.
- I will indeed.
- Thank you.
And I'll be all the more convincing
in my report when I've met your wife.
Yes.
Why not?
Listen, we will be home
on Sunday afternoon.
You want to come by for a coffee?
Yes, I will.
And please convey to your wife how much
I'm looking forward to seeing her.
- I Will.
- Good.
[horse whinnies]
[Julia] Oh, yes, please,
outside. On the terrace.
Thank you.
- [woman] Do as she says.
- Ah, Luis!
Ah!
Oh, just in time.
This one is for Sunday paseo,
and this one for weekdays.
What do you think?
It's fine, it's fine.
And, and the-- and the rest?
Um, this one I like.
What do you mean?
There are 7 days in a week.
Oh, yeah.
What about your trunk?
ls there nothing in there?
No, nothing good.
And, anyway, I've lost the key.
Oh, we'll get a locksmith.
It's an easy job.
Actually, I'll do it myself.
[both giggle]
No, I want to show you something.
Come here.
You all have to leave now.
I'm going to kiss my husband.
And then we're going to take a bath.
Gracias, gracias.
Muchos gracias.
Mmm.
What do I smell?
My perfume.
No.
A cigar.
Hmm. I tried one.
One of my cigars?
I wanted the taste of you in my mouth.
[laughing]
- You have no shame at all.
- No.
No, there is no shame
in loving each other.
Do you love me? Julia?
Do you love me?
Or are you not the loving kind?
Hmm?
[water dripping]
[bird chirping]
I forgot to tell you.
Uh, we have a visitor
coming on Sunday.
Oh. We do?
Yes,
a genuine private investigator,
coming all the way from Delaware.
Oh? So, Emily sent him?
Yeah. Detective Downs.
Detective Downs, did you say?
Don't you worry,
he only needs to see that you're well
and happy and truly my wife.
Then this nonsense will be over.
Oh, when will that damn
bird stop its screaming?
- Julia.
-Hmm?
[chuckles]
I'm sorry.
Ah.
Careful, careful.
It's coming. It's coming.
[screams]
♪♪ [humming]
Oh, no.
No.
Oh, Don Luis, look. He's dead.
He was just singing.
Well, he's not singing now, is he?
Looks like he got his
little neck broken.
Take him away.
I don't want Julia to see him.
♪♪ [Julia sings softly]
How does a person die
on this instrument?
I believe that, um,
the turning of the wheel
will break the neck of a person.
And if it doesn't?
Does the person then strangle?
Are you afraid?
No.
Julia is not afraid.
But Bonny is.
I don't understand.
Who is Bonny?
I'm looking for Mr. Vargas.
[Julia] That is a question
Luis would soon be asking.
[Speaks Spanish]
Mr. Vargas?
My name is Russell.
Emily Russell.
I am Julia's sister.
So, you will understand how upset
I was to receive this letter.
Upset?
But I-I-I thought you would
be pleased to receive it.
This letter, sir,
which was written in answer
to the one I last sent her,
and which is signed in her name,
is not from Julia.
Of course it is. Of course.
I mailed it myself.
This letter was not
written by my sister.
Miss Russell.
Oh.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Don't be upset, please. I swear to you--
Well, swear as much as you like.
That is not Julia's handwriting.
That is the handwriting of a stranger--
A person unknown--
At least to me.
Where is she?
[Sara] Senor,
I was going to send for you.
[Luis] Where is she?
- Go away. Go away.
- [Sara] Oh, senor.
Get out.
- Where did she go, Sara?
- I don't know.
She sent me to the post office,
and when I come back--
[groans]
She's not coming back, is she, Sara?
She never was here.
You've been married to a dream.
A dream that stole your soul.
Luis! What is it?
[Speaks Spanish]
Your wife appeared at 2:55
for a last-minute withdrawal.
As you had instructed us,
I gave her full access
to your accounts.
Your balance at closing time was
$51.40 in the one account,
$10 in the other.
As I explained to your wife,
to have closed them both out completely,
your own signature
would have been necessary.
I'm sorry.
[sighs]
Don Luis?
Oh.
Mi carino.
God must have been
angry with you the day
he let you look in
that woman's face.
[sighs]
I want her back, Sara.
I want her back.
No. No, carino. What for?
What for you want her back again?
[sighs]
[moaning]
Stop it. Ah!
Stop! Stop!
[Julia] No, this is not a love story.
But it is a story about love.
About those who give in to it,
and the price they pay.
And those who run away from it,
because they are afraid,
or because they do not believe
they are worthy of it.
She ran away.
He gave in.
[man] Mr. Vargas?
- Yeah?
- Walter Downs.
What a happy coincidence.
Oh, yeah.
I remember you.
And the authorities here,
they could do nothing?
Uh-uh. No.
Af-after all,
there was no crime.
She was my wife. She--she
just took what I had given her.
Your money.
Yeah.
And your love.
And you did not suspect?
[gasps]
[chuckles]
It seems that--that I know a lot less
about women than I thought I did.
And I know too much.
Consequently, I've not
much use for them,
apart from the necessities.
For real intercourse,
I prefer the company of men.
Listen to me.
Could you find her?
Perhaps.
But, I am, at the moment,
engaged to find the real Julia,
the one you were meant to marry.
Have you found her?
Not yet.
If you do-- if you do,
she might lead you
to the Julia I married.
Perhaps.
And vice versa.
As much as you want, I will pay,
if you can find her for me.
That's all I want.
Then I assume you have
made up your losses.
As much as you want,
I will pay, I said it.
I will pay.
Yes, I believe you would.
And if I did find your Julia?
If I brought her to you,
or you to her,
what good would it
possibly do you now, hmm?
Money's gone.
The love...
ruined.
What could you
possibly want with her?
What could you possibly want?
I want to kill her.
Boarding pass?
Your boarding pass, please?
[man] Yes, yes.
I do recall this lady.
Slim and dark and very...
I remember coming along the deck
and the breeze catching her skirt.
She was coming towards me.
Then she quickly held
it down with her hand
and as she passed, she smiled.
I believe she was traveling
with a troupe of American actors,
touring the island.
Oh, yes, I remember.
Because she rolled up
some lettuce in her napkin.
I thought it was strange.
But then she explained
it was for her bird.
She was traveling with a bird.
Oh, yes. Yes, I remember her.
A lady with a birdcage,
but this doesn't look like her.
She was young and very pretty.
Oh, yes, that's her.
[Downs] And the real Julia
never appears,
because she is dead.
Y-you mean, uh,
- you mean murder.
- Yes.
Or she could have had an accomplice.
These women often have an accomplice.
Someone she might
use and then discard.
Someone who might even
now be in pursuit of her,
just as you and I are.
And this is where it happened.
Here in Havana.
♪♪ [festive music plays]
[man] This way, gentlemen,
and welcome to Havana.
Mr. Downs will be in room 37,
and Mr. Vargas will be just
down the hall in room 42.
Thank you.
I'll hook myself up
with the local authorities
and see if any dead bodies
have turned up recently.
You're welcome to join me.
No. No, thank you.
Havana is a very accommodating city,
especially during carnival.
I suggest the opera restaurant, sir.
It's just across the street.
Thank you.
It's very popular with
the American tourists.
[Downs] Why don't you do
something pleasant tonight?
Treat yourself to a good dinner,
a good cigar and a good whore.
[Luis] I prefer to be alone. Thank you.
So, I'll leave you
on your own, then.
Good night.
This way.
[chattering]
♪♪ [carnival music plays]
Here you are.
Privacy, and a view of the room.
If you see anything
or anyone who interests you,
uh, let me know and I will
see what I can arrange.
Thank you.
[woman and man laugh]
[Julia] if I could have my coffee
every morning before I dressed,
I would be very happy.
It would change the day.
[voice echoes] I would be very happy.
[man] Then that is what
you shall have.
When we are married,
you shall have everything you wish.
Hmm. married? Your wife might have
something to say about that.
[steward] This way, Colonel,
s'il vous plait.
"S'il vous plait"
indeed, you silly mountebank.
You're about as French as my asshole!
Edwin, curb your tongue.
[Colonel] Yes, ma'am.
Julia...
May I help you, sir?
I thought I saw
an old friend of mine. Uh...
- Colonel...
- Col. Worth?
- Yes.
- Oh, yes. This way.
- [speaks French]
- No, no, no. I...
I-- I wouldn't bother him now.
Is he staying at the hotel?
No, he's at home in Havana.
He lives at Avenida Medics.
I believe his fiancee is at the hotel.
- His fiancee?
- Yes, Miss Castle.
Yes, yes.
I see. Thank you.
[speaks French]
[muffled voices]
[woman laughs]
[muffled voices continue]
[Worth] My dear, I don't have
that kind of money.
[Julia] But, my dear, you do.
Your annual expenditures
are $200,000, more or less.
How-- how do you know that?
Because, under favorable
conditions, you could realize
at least 1.5 million pounds
of sugar in good seasons.
5 cents a pound--
No, no, no, no, don't. Don't
make me talk about business now.
I've been waiting
for this all night.
Mmm.
[Julia] Now, don't watch.
[Worth] Be kind, my dove.
- Be kind to an old man.
- I am kind.
Kind as I have ever been.
Will you undo my dress, please?
Oh, yes.
Let me have that pleasure.
That's enough. Thank you.
Thank you...
for a wonderful evening.
Good night.
- No.
- Yes.
I'll behave.
I'll only sit and watch you.
You see,
I sit...
and I watch.
- Is that what you want?
- You know.
Mm-hmm.
You are very tiresome
and I am very tired.
- Good night.
- No.
No.
- Good night. Yes. Good night.
- No.
Mayn't I stay?
Please. Let me stay.
Darling dove, I'm weeping.
My heart is pudding.
I'll go.
But my pudding is all broken.
Good night...
my little dove.
Good night.
"Parting is such sweet sorrow."
♪♪ [humming]
[whispers] It's only me, Julia.
You haven't forgotten me, have you?
Hmm.
Who's Billy?
Just a fellow.
Must be quite a few
fellows in your life.
Billy,
me,
the colonel.
Did you marry all of them? Eh?
No, just you.
Oh, liar.
Liar.
[whispers] Liar.
Well, what is it, then?
- What is it?
- Yes.
What are your plans for me?
- My plans?
- Hmm.
I just came hereto kill you.
[laughs]
My God.
All right, do it.
Oh.
There. There's my heart. Don't hesitate.
Your money's gone. Do it.
Gone.
Like the woman you murdered?
- What? No.
- Yes.
- You were with her on that boat!
- Believe what you want!
- But not that!
- You were seen together!
I was not alone.
She told you all about me, didn't she?
No!
I told him!
The next day,
he told me she'd had an accident
and to take her place. So I did.
Another man? Eh?
Accomplice?
Friend? Lover?
An accomplice--
You saw us together,
backstage, at the play.
My friend, my accomplice and,
Yes, yes, my lover.
He was an actor, like myself.
Actors playing parts.
I told him that night,
I didn't want to go through with it.
I couldn't go through with it--
Why not? Why not?
Because!
Because I was...
Damn it. I was falling
in love with my own husband.
Again. Liar.
I could have--I could
have bought him off!
I could have kept him away!
But you made me write to her sister
and then it was all over!
Whore!
Thief!
[cocks gun]
This is howl live.
It's all I know.
I took the money
and I gave it to him.
Oh! And then I ran.
No!
What does it matter?
It's over.
God!
Whore!
Liar! Thief!
Yes! Yes!
Don't you see?
Don't you see I cannot
breathe without you?
I cannot live without you!
Don't you see that?
Don't you see how much I love you?
[sobs]
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
[church bell tolls]
[Luis whispers] Where am I?
Who are you?
Really.
My name's Bonny.
Bonny Castle.
[whispers] Bonny Castle.
Is that your Christian name?
It would be
if I were Christian.
But I'm not.
I was never baptized.
I was a foundling.
And so was Billy.
We were raised in an orphanage
outside of St. Louis.
He gave me my name.
He saw it on a picture
postcard from Scotland.
It had a drawing on it,
of a "bonny castle," it said.
When we were 14,
we ran away together.
Like brother, sister, father,
daughter, husband, wife.
- And he was my salvation.
- No!
No.
I don't want to know.
Not now.
You are Julia Russell,
from Wilmington, Delaware.
You were born
the day you stepped off that boat
and became my wife.
But then,
then I am not Julia Russell
at all, am I?
I'm simply your wife.
[knock on door]
Mmm.
- Who is it?
- I don't know.
It's Edwin, my dear.
Am I too early?
Don't hurry.
Nothing gives me more pleasure than
to wait for you outside your door.
Unless, of course,
you were to let me in.
- Col. Worth.
- Good God!
- May I help you, sir?
- You are not dressed, sir.
Eh, eh, no, I am not.
Uh, I am engaged at the moment
in a private function.
A function for which clothes
are more of a hindrance than a help.
- A private function?
- Yes, sir.
With Bonny? A private function?
Good God, man!
But--but I am being rude.
Please--please, come in.
- No, sir. Are you mad?
- Mad? No.
I am only curious to know what exactly
is your business at my wife's door.
Your wife?
Did you say "wife"?
Edwin. Edwin, be careful.
He has a fearful temper.
I beg your pardon, sir. I do.
I beg your pardon.
I'm an old fool.
I didn't know.
I'm sorry.
Well...
Good morning to you, sir.
Good morning.
[whispers] Good morning.
You see?
You have no past.
Mmm.
It's gone. Finished.
Disappeared.
You have only me now.
[peacocks cawing]
'Morning.
There you are. You weren't
in your room this morning.
I have some very interesting news.
So do I.
[reads in Spanish]
"Woman's body found."
"Foul play suspected."
How's my Spanish?
Julia Russell?
Stabbed in the neck with a small knife,
then thrown overboard.
Probably the work of a man,
but could've easily been a woman.
The blade of the knife
was still in her throat.
And so your wife
is now officially a fugitive.
Not only are we pursuing her,
but the police, as well.
Cheer up, man.
This is good news.
It won't be long now
before she's caught.
She...
didn't do this.
I believe you still
love her, don't you?
Of course. How could
you hate her so much
if you did not still love her?
Trust me, my friend.
There is no such thing as love.
There are only misguided
feelings and emotions.
It was my knife. He used my knife.
- Yes, yes.
- It wasn't me, I promise you.
I believe you.
No one else will,
no one will believe that I'm innocent.
Listen to me.
No one else matters. Not to me.
What are you thinking?
Of you.
[man] Welcome to Cardenas.
Right this way. This is the entrance.
It's very elegant,
in a very good part of town.
Mostly Americans
and tourists from the continent.
I think you'll find all
the furnishings you need included.
A bedroom,
a sitting room,
a very good kitchen.
[Julia laughs]
Here in Cardenas,
you are close to Havana,
but very far away.
We are known for the waters
and for the healing powers of the sun.
Vargas.
What a happy accident.
Yes. Yes, indeed.
Ha.
What--what brings you to Cardenas?
Not a rest cure, I assure you.
No, of course not.
There were reports of a woman
answering a certain description.
She was seen boarding a train,
heading east.
You haven't seen
or heard anything, have you?
I have lost my taste
for women of that description.
Ah. Glad to hear of it.
Uh, listen, uh...
Can I offer you a pinales?
- What's that?
- A drink.
- Huh.
Uh, there is a cafe down the street.
The sun is warm. [sighs]
Your face, for instance,
is quite moist.
The body was positively
identified by her sister.
Very sad. But very accurate.
2 moles high on the inner thigh,
and a gold crown on a back tooth.
And on her left hand,
a small, round scar.
That's very interesting.
Will you excuse me?
I have to use the convenience.
By all means.
Do as you must.
[horse neighs]
[door opens]
Julia?
[door closes]
Julia!
Come upstairs. We...
Ah, Luis.
I am disappointed.
And yet full of admiration.
Where is she?
Who? No. She's not here.
You called her name.
Wait, wait. You have no business here.
Downs, please. Be smart and leave.
Get out while you still can.
She's mine, Luis.
Give her up, before it's too late.
You are aiding a criminal!
And you are very close
to becoming a criminal yourself.
Come to your senses, man.
You saw it. She is not here.
Now, please. Please.
Don't lie to me, Mr. Vargas.
I can smell her on you.
Her perfume,
stinking on your clothing.
You just left her, didn't you?
But that's it. Get out. Get out now.
[groans]
Did she throw her arms around you?
Embrace you, like this?
Did she rub her cheek
against yours, like this?
Did she kiss you on the mouth?
If I kiss you now,
will I taste her on you?
[gunshot]
Go!
[coughs]
Oh.
You would do this for her?
- Lu?
- Wait! Wait.
Wait.
Speak of the devil,
and she appears.
Oh, no, no, no!
My God. What have you done?
What have you done?
It's--it's--it's him.
It's the detective.
[sobs]
He came here for you.
What are you doing?
Don't touch him.
Don't touch him!
[sighs]
Did he come here alone?
Yes.
No one saw him come in?
I-I-I...
I don't know.
Christ, Julia.
I've killed a man.
You need to go now.
Go to the train station.
Secure 2 seats on the
morning train east, no matter where.
And...
I will contact the estate agent and
tell him that we've changed our minds,
and there's been an emergency.
Julia.
Yes, what?
I've just killed a man.
And I just bought a hat.
But I don't dwell on it.
I don't go around saying
over and over in my head,
"I just bought a hat." "I just
bought a hat." It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
It's done. Help me.
Oh, God.
- There. That should do it.
- I'll bring him down.
No. No. You need to go to the station
before the window closes.
Come here. Put these on.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I'll hurry.
No. No, don't hurry.
You go slowly, enjoy the walk
and no one will notice you.
- Understand?
- Yes.
[sighs]
Billy.
You finally got what you deserved.
[screams]
- Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho.
- Jesus!
Aren't you glad to see me?
Aren't you glad to see
old Detective Downs again?
Should I be?
I got very good notices
playing this part in Chicago.
Or don't you remember?
Let go of me, Billy.
[laughing] You thought I was
really dead,
didn't you?
' No!
»  Cackling]
[both screaming]
Did you think there were
real bullets in that gun?
Huh?
Did you think they were real
the night he came to murder you?
Aah. Aah!
I couldn't risk his
putting out your lights,
not before I caught up with you.
- Let go of me, Billy. Let--
- Never.
Not until you come
back in the game.
What game?
The skin game, darling.
The skin game.
There is no game.
Oh, yes. I see it so clearly.
No, no.
What do you see? Huh?
I see him running out of money.
I see you arranging that.
I see him doing the
only thing he can do.
I see him going to Santiago,
selling his share of the company.
I see him coming back with money.
I see us
finishing what we started.
You and me together.
We're going to make
you a rich widow.
[sighs]
No.
He's worth a hell of a lot more than we
got out of him the first time, darling.
And he's such an easy mark,
devoted as he is to you.
Bound together as you are
by mutual crimes and various...
misdemeanors.
- Let go of me, please.
- Beg.
- Please. Please, let go!
- On.
- Aah.
It tickles my dick when you beg.
He says he loves me.
No one loves you, Bonny.
No one could.
Except for me.
He does.
I think he does.
Not enough to live
the life of a fugitive.
Back alleys, cheap hotels...
It won't be like that.
Oh, how then?
Happily ever after?
A nice, respectable couple,
living on Main Street?
Sunday dinners,
walks in the park with children?
Christ, what's he done to you?
Who do you think you are?
Who does he think you are?
- Stop it.
-Hmm?
- You're a whore, Bonny.
- Ah.
A man puts his hands on you,
and you're wet...
[moans]
Is it true or not?
Hmm?
You were born one
and you'll die one.
Sooner than later
if the police catch up with you.
You wouldn't do that to me.
I was your first man, Bonny.
Your very first.
And I Will be
your last.
One way or another.
[groans]
[whispers] There's no future
with him, darling.
Face the truth.
You can't live his life.
And he certainly
can't live yours.
Let him go.
- No.
- Shh.
- Let him go.
- No.
- Shh.
Let him go.
-No.
-Yes
[meows]
Julia?
Mmm, I was so hungry.
What about him?
We have to get rid of the body.
No, it's done.
- It's done?
- Mm-hmm.
You mean you did it yourself?
I packed all our things, as well.
I left one suit out on the bed,
for the train.
So, did you get the tickets?
- The tickets? Yes. Yes.
- Good.
We go tomorrow in the morning.
Back to Havana. 7:00, yes.
Hmm, what an adventure. Hmm?
Come to bed.
You must be exhausted.
I know I am.
Wait, wait, wait.
Hmm, what?
Have you no conscience at all?
I mean...
Yes, of course I do.
But you see, I don't let
it get the best of me.
It's just something that happened.
Something that had to be done.
And when something has
to be done, you do it. Right?
So, here's to us.
A short life, but an exciting one.
Mmm.
Good night.
[Julia] Listen to her talk.
Listen to the words that
came out of her mouth.
[priest] You mean Bonny?
Yes, Bonny.
Did you have no control over her?
No one had control over her.
No one did.
No one, except for Billy.
And he wanted the rest of the money.
They found a house
in the poor section of town.
Bonny said they would go unnoticed
there, and she was right.
There were many things that
would go unnoticed in that house.
All she had to do was
get Luis to Santiago,
and it would all be over.
No, no, no. You don't understand.
Hmm. We've run out?
Yes. I'll go tomorrow to Santiago.
I'll take the first
train in the morning.
What will you do there?
We need money, don't we?
Hmm.
Whatever you say.
[Julia cries]
Oh, no.
Julia?
Come on. Hey, hey, hey, hey.
Oh, God. I don't want
you to go to Santiago.
But--but...
I have to go.
I don't want you to go.
I have no choice.
Yes, you do. You have a choice.
Once again.
When my hand strays
to my breast...
- Hearts.
- My left eardrop.
- Diamonds.
- My right eardrop.
- Clubs.
- My throat.
- Spades.
- Little finger of my left hand.
- One.
- Little finger of my right hand.
- Ten.
- When I do this,
- it means they have nothing.
- Right.
Mmm?
- King, queen, jack.
- Yes.
Yes. Mmm.
- Yeah.
- Oh, you're a natural.
- L-listen to me, uh--
- This is the way.
This is the only way.
This is our way.
This is you and me, together.
Please.
Now,
tell me what I'm holding.
[card player #1] All right.
[Julia] Would you like
some more whiskey?
Yes.
[man] Too rich for me.
Yes. Why not?
Why not, indeed? All right.
- He wins again.
- I'm sorry, gentlemen.
More champagne.
Does the lady mind
if I remove my coat?
No. Do and say as you please.
Try and forget that
I am even here.
- Easier said than done.
- [all laugh]
[Julia] Can I get you another drink?
[man] Yes, that would be lovely.
Thank you, my dear.
More whiskey?
[players murmuring]
Will you ask the lady to retire, sir?
- What do you mean?
- Do you have to be told?
Take your hand from my wife.
Please, sir.
Gladly.
If there is one thing lower
than a man who will cheat at cards,
it's a man who will use a woman
to do his cheating for him.
[grunting]
Ah.
[panting]
Julia?
Well, my dear,
let's see what other
tricks you might know.
[wood snaps]
Santisima.
- Are you all right?
- Mm-hmm. Yes.
Sh-should I...
Should I call someone?
Mmm.
You are so kind.
You are so young
and innocent and kind.
No. No one is innocent.
Mmm.
You have a story as well.
Will you tell me...
if there's time?
I have no story.
Not like yours.
Well, it was Sonny's story now.
And look what she had done.
He could not live in her world.
And she would never fit into his.
[Luis] Dear Alan--
Congratulations.
You have just purchased my share of
Vargas-Jordan Coffee Export House.
The price I have settled on
is everything that was in the safe,
which I believe is very much
in your favor. I'm sorry.
[Alan] Luis! Wait!
[Luis] I'm sorry I couldn't wait
to discuss this with you, but...
as you may know, I am now
a fugitive from justice.
More than that, I cannot say.
What are you talking about?
What have you--
Murder.
I have done murder.
-No.
-Yes
I did it for her.
And the truth is
that I would do it again.
[train whistle blows]
Good luck to you.
Thank you for having
once been my friend.
Go on.
God help you.
[Bonny moaning]
Will you light me a cigar?
Yes.
I'll make us some coffee.
[glass shatters]
- Oh, damn!
- What happened?
- There's a rat.
- A rat?
There's a rat.
It ran right over my foot.
Do you see it?
No.
- I didn't see it.
- No?
What are you doing?
I'm going to the pharmacist.
- At this hour?
- Yes.
It's 9:00. It's closed.
No, there's one at the prado.
It's open till 10:00.
What are you doing?
Wait, wait, wait.
I won't be long.
[door closes]
♪♪ [piano plays softly]
[soft murmuring]
[baby cries]
[Billy] You can't save him, darling.
If that's what you're thinking.
[Bonny] Why not?
Why can't we just go?
I have 2 tickets for us on the train.
Tonight, midnight.
We have the money.
Leave him.
Oh, Bonny, it doesn't suit you,
this kind of compassion.
Oh.
How could I trust you, huh? There'd
always be someone else between us.
Why? Why hurt him?
He's a part of you that must die.
You need to kill it,
or I promise you, it will kill you.
What are you doing? Billy?
I'm going back there with you.
I'm going to finish the job
and have done with it.
- You'll have the police all over us.
- Then do as you're told.
- Do it now.
- [Bonny moans]
[groans]
- Say it.
- Billy--
Say you're mine.
You're mine. Say it.
- Yes.
- Yes, what? Yes, what, what?
Yes, I'm yours.
♪♪ [whistles]
You startled me.
You took a long time.
What are you doing in the dark?
- Thinking.
- What are you thinking?
I was thinking that if I ever lost you,
my life would be over.
There would be nothing left for me.
Except to die.
Mmm.
Don't say such things.
Did you find what
you were looking for?
Yes, I did.
I had to go all
the way across town.
I'm going to go change.
Wash your hands and go to bed.
I'll bring the coffee.
[Julia] There you are.
How do they die, you think?
- From the poison?
- [Luis] Yes.
I don't know.
Does it take a long time?
I suppose it depends
on how much you give them.
That's right.
- Ah.
- Is it painful?
I really don't want to think about it.
No.
No, no, no, no, of course not.
We don't want our conscience
to get the best of us, do we?
It's something that has to be done.
And when something has to be done,
you do it.
Is your coffee too hot?
I saw him.
Who?
I followed you.
You saw who? Where?
[sighs]
Julia.
Sham-shall we just,
uh, play the game,
or just speak the truth?
Well...
the truth is best.
All right, then.
Is he here?
Yes.
Where?
Outside, waiting.
When I turn the lights off.
When I am dead?
Yes.
I-I led him to you
in Havana, didn't I?
Yes.
How did he know
I wouldn't kill you then?
He put blank cartridges in your gun.
Oh.
[chuckles]
Uh.
Like a play.
All of it.
Lies.
From the moment I met you.
Not all of it, no.
Do you laugh at me behind
my back, the 2 of you?
Do you laugh at me for how
stupid I have been, how...
how blind?
No.
Laugh now when
I tell you this--
I loved you, Julia.
Julia is not here. Julia is dead.
Laugh when I tell you
that I still love you.
No.
No, not me.
You don't love me.
Oh, yes.
Oh, yes, you.
Not Julia Russell. Not...
Bonny Castle.
You.
I love you as I know you.
Because I know you.
As you are.
Good and bad.
Better and worse.
[chuckles]
I told you this already,
but you didn't believe me.
Tonight you will.
To us.
A short life and an exciting life.
Don't do this.
No other one.
No other love but you.
From first to last.
Start to finish.
Don't change, Julia.
Don't ever change.
No, no. No!
No!
[groans]
[coughs]
Hold on.
[retching]
[dog barking]
[train whistle blows]
♪♪ [drums playing]
[chattering]
[gasps]
Let's go.
[train bell ringing]
Ahh!
Get off!
- Ah ?
- Aah !
You disappoint me, Bonny.
[women scream]
Aah!
What do you think?
Do you think those are real bullets?
[groans]
[crowd screams]
[Cries]
[coughing]
[Speaks Spanish]
- Do you speak English?
- Yes.
- Yes!
- He needs a doctor.
- What about him?
Ohh.
[gunshot]
[Luis groans]
He's dead.
He needs a doctor.
All right. I'm calling the police.
[Speaks Spanish]
Please, please, please.
Stay, stay, stay.
- I love you. I love you.
- [sobbing]
I love you. I love you.
I love you. Do you hear me?
- Say it.
- I love you.
Say it again.
I love you. I love you.
I love you, Luis.
- Aah.
" Aah!
No! No! No!
You hold on! Hold on! No!
No, no, no, no...
Don't go! Stay! Stay.
Please hold on.
[Julia] And this is
where the story ends,
at least for me.
Even though he is alive now,
how could I get to him?
Do you believe in forgiveness?
Yes.
And redemption for the human soul?
Even for someone like me?
Yes.
- I believe so.
- Well then,
I will see him in heaven, won't I?
Yes.
Will you hand me my shawl, please?
Yes, of course.
Now, pray with me.
Yes.
I wore this on my wedding day.
But my heart was not in it then.
[speaks Latin]
[priest's voice trembling]
[Speaks Spanish]
I'm sorry, ma'am. It is time.
If I may?
[speaks Latin]
What the hell!
[guard] It's the priest.
But he left an hour ago.
I saw him.
[chief jailer] Guards! Guards!
♪♪ [music plays]
Well, I must say,
it's a pleasure to be in such
lovely company for a change.
Oh, the pleasure is all mine.
And thank you, gentlemen,
for letting me attend.
[speaks Japanese]
[speaks German]
And you, sir, may I say, it's a lucky
man who has found such a wife.
Yes, I am.
And perhaps, later on
I will--I will tell you the story
of how we came to be here.
It is an...interesting tale.
Some of it is even true.
But for now, all I can say
is that from the moment I saw her
I loved her.
And no matter the price,
you cannot walk away from love.
4.
[drops chips]
♪ Here I am before you
♪ Naked in your eyes
♪ Hoping with each kiss
♪ You will never see
through my disguise
♪ I had been made to believe
♪ That no one could love me for me
♪ The good and the bad
♪ First to the last
♪ No matter the cost
♪ No matter the past
♪ Your eyes only see
what they want to see
♪ Your heart makes the truth
what you want to believe
♪ Passion turns pain into ecstasy
♪ You can't walk away from love
♪ Loving you more than I do myself
♪ Revealing the things
I would never tell
♪ Daring to risk even life itself
♪ You can't walk away from love
♪ There will be no other
♪ Lips against my skin
♪ No need to regret
♪ How can pleasure ever be a sin
♪ I tried to make you believe
♪ You meant almost nothing to me
♪ Through all the lies
♪ Chasing a dream
♪ Finding at last the woman in me
♪ Your eyes only see
what they want to see
♪ Your heart makes the truth
what you want to believe
♪ Passions turn pain into ecstasy
♪ You can't walk away from love
♪ Loving you more than I do myself
♪ Revealing the things
I would never tell
♪ Daring to risk even life itself
♪ You can't walk away from love
♪ Your eyes only see
what they want to see
♪ Your heart makes the truth
what you want to believe
♪ Passion turns pain into ecstasy
♪ You can't walk away from love
♪ Loving you more than I do myself
♪ Revealing the things
I could never tell
♪ Daring to risk even life itself
♪ You can't walk away from love
♪ Your eyes only see
what they want to see
♪ What you want to believe
♪ You can't walk away from love ♪